Compilation
===

Regularly:
```bash
$ as -o obj.o ${source file.s}
$ ld obj.o
$ ./a.out
```

Debugging:  
```bash
$ as -g -o obj.o ${source file.s}
$ ld obj.o
$ gdb a.out
```

When in gdb, use the following commands:
* `b _start` sets a breakpoint at the beginning of the program
* `layout r` will show the register values
* `focus r` switches focus to the register pane (so you can scroll it)
* `focus cmd` switches focus back to the command window
* `run` will let the program run (until it hits a breakpoint)
* `s` steps forward one line after you hit a breakpoint

CPSR
===

*C*urrent *P*rogram *S*tatus *R*egister, has a lot of information
regarding the status of commands. For the purposes of the class,
only the first/leading four bits will be used. Because they are
just four bits, it is contained by the very first hex value in the
gdb debugger.

```
  N = negative
  Z = zero
  C = carry
  V = overflow
```

Using CPSR
===

The `cmp a b` will perform `a - b` and store any triggered flags in the
CPSR. This will effectively compare the two values.

(I will leave out the `_exit` and `_global` kind of stuff that's the
same in all of the files, for the sake of brevity).

```armv7
_start:
  mov r10, #6
  mov r11, #9
  cmp r10, r11
```

Before this runs, the value in the CPSR will be its default value,
`0x00000010`, but after it runs it will read `0x80000010`. Because the
values we care about only take up the first four bits, we only need to
pay attention to the `0x8` part.

```
      NZCV
0x8 = 0b1000
```

We can tell that the result of the comparison is negative, because the
bit in the `N` position is enabled. This is what we expected, because
6 - 9 = -3

```armv7
_start:
  mov r10, #6
  mov r11, #6
  cmp r10, r11
```

Because 6 - 6 = 0, we expect that the `Z` position will be triggered. When
this code is actually executed, the CPSR outputs this instead:

```
        NZCV
0x6 = 0b0110
```

The `C` bit was also triggered, indicating a carry occured. To see why, do
the bit math:

```
 6 =   0..0110
-6 = ~(0..0110) + 1
   =   1..1001  + 1
   =   1..1010

    6  =   |0..0110
+ (-6) =   |1..1010
=================
    0  =  1|0..0000
```

Because of the extra 1 on the left side after the addition was done is out of
bounds, the `C` bit was triggered.

```armv7
_start:
  mov r10, #6
  mov r11, #6
  add r12, r10, r11 /* this won't affect the CPSR at all */
  cmp r10, r11
```

It's important to know that by default, most operations won't affect the CPSR
at all. `cmp` will be the most important (if not only) op we'll be using in
the class to affect the CPSR.

